Sharleen Guerrero
 
1. Before doing any other investigation, list two or three questions that this infographic and explanation of methodology raise in your mind.
A few questions that this infographic and explanation of methodology raise are: Would organizing the comfort foods by category (sweet, savory, salty) draw deeper insights? How reliable is Google Trends as an authority for actual food consumption/preferences? How is breakup specificity for each comfort food measured?


2. Where can you find Google Trends search data? Provide the URL.
https://trends.google.com/trends/

3. The article concluded that “milkshakes take the crown as the ultimate breakup food, topping the list in six states.” Pull up Google Trends data on Milkshake (beverage) and change the date range to February 1, 2024 through February 28, 2025.
a) What is the highest peak recorded in the line chart for “Interest over time”?
The highest peak recorded in the line chart is 	July 2024.
b) What is the lowest dip recorded?
The lowest dip recorded in the line chart is from September 30 to October 31, 2024.

4. At the top next to the box for “Milkshake,” there is a plus sign to add another search
term. Click the plus sign to add a search for Hamburger (Food).
a) What is the highest peak recorded for searches using Hamburger (Food).
The highest peak recorded in the line chart is 	from April 30 to May 31, 2024.
b) What happened to the line for Milkshake? What do the high and low look like now?
After adding "hamburger (food)" to the search 	results, visually, the line seems to flatten significantly.

5. Why did the line for Milkshake change? Hint: Click on the i icon next to “Interest over time” for more information about how trend results are displayed.
The line for "Milkshake" changed because the scale for search interest over time is relative. So once "Hamburger" was added, it's values rescaled downward proportionately to show that compared to hamburger, milkshake draws less search volume.

6. Add a third term to your search, this time for Breakup (Topic).
a) Do you see any patterns that suggest a relationship 	between searches for Breakup and Hamburger?
A pattern I notice is that although breakup searches may decrease, search results for Hamburger remains consistent or even increases. Only in July 2024 is a small pattern recognized, hamburger searches decrease as breakup searches decrease, but this may be due to other external factors.
	
b) How about between Breakup and Milkshake?
A small pattern I notice is that whenever breakup searches decrease, milkshake searches increase. However, this would indicate that there is no significant relationship between milkshake and breakup search results.


7. What does all of this suggest about the reliability of the conclusions reached in the article?
These patterns suggest that the methodology of the article is flawed. It confuses overall popularity of foods with breakup specificity, without there being any  clear measures for breakup specificity for these comfort foods.

8. At the upper right of Google Trends, click on the link for “Back to Classic Explore.” Notice that this view includes a section for “Compared breakdown by subregion.”
a) What was the top state by interest for Milkshake?
The top state by interest for milkshake is South Carolina.
b) What was the top state by interest for Hamburger?
The top state by interest for Hamburger is South Dakota.